Books for Developers

JAVASCRIPT AND JQUERY
If you want to be a front-end developer, you’ve got to learn JavaScript. JavaScript and JQuery: Interactive Front-End Web Development, by Jon Duckett, covers basic programming concepts, core elements of JavaScript, jQuery, and more.

JAVASCRIPT & JQUERY: THE MISSING MANUAL
JavaScript & jQuery: The Missing Manual, by David Sawyer McFarland, talks about making your pages interactive, using animations and effects, collecting data with web forms, and a whole lot more.

EFFECTIVE PYTHON
Effective Python: 59 Specific Ways to Write Better Python, by Brett Slatkin, helps you write exceptionally robust, efficient, maintainable, and well-performing Python code. It covers algorithms, objects, collaboration, built-in modules, and other important topics.

PYTHON CRASH COURSE
Python Crash Course: A Hands-On, Project-Based Introduction to Programming, by Eric Matthes, is a fast-paced look at programming with Python that will have you writing programs and solving problems in no time. Create and customize simple web apps, work with data to create interactive visualizations, and make 2D games, among other awesome projects.

A SOFTWARE ENGINEER LEARNS HTML5, JAVASCRIPT AND JQUERY
A Software Engineer Learns HTML5, JavaScript and jQuery: A guide to standards-based web applications, by Dane Cameron, will teach you everything you need to know to get started writing your own web applications using modern web technology. You only need a very basic knowledge of HTML (like what you’ll learn in our FREE Tech Terms Bootcamp!) and programming to understand it all.

ELOQUENT JAVASCRIPT
Eloquent JavaScript: A Modern Introduction to Programming, by Marijn Haverbeke, teaches the essential elements of programming, including syntax, control, and data; how to make basic web applications; and how to use the DOM effectively to interact with browsers, among other topics.

THE WELL-GROUNDED RUBYIST
The Well-Grounded Rubyist, by David A. Black, is suitable for both beginners to Ruby and Ruby experts who want a better understanding on the way the language works. It goes from basic techniques to build your first Ruby application to more sophisticated topics like reflection and threading.

HEAD FIRST RUBY
Head First Ruby, by Jay McGavren, has a visually rich format to engage your mind more than text-heavy books. It’ll teach you to be a more productive programmer through a hands-on learning experience.

DIGGING INTO WORDPRESS
Digging Into WordPress, by Chris Coyier and Jeff Starr, includes over 400 pages of excellent WordPress advice that’s perfect for beginners to experts. It has lots of code samples, a beautiful custom design, and even includes a lifetime subscription to updates.

MODERN PHP
Modern PHP: New Features and Good Practices, by Josh Lockhart, teaches you how to find, use, and create PHP components; modern PHP features, such as namespaces, traits, generators, and closures; and much more.

CODERS AT WORK
Coders at Work: Reflections on the Craft of Programming, by Peter Seibel, talks about how successful programmers tackle their day-to-day work, plus how they became great programmers and the kinds of problems they find most interesting.

CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW
If you’re searching for your first tech job, Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions, by Gayle Laakmann McDowell, is a must-have resource. You’ll get great practice with the types of coding questions (and solutions) you’re likely to encounter at any web developer interview.
